Enhance mapping explosion documentation in Elasticsearch (#4539)
elastic/docs-content: troubleshoot/elasticsearch/mapping-explosion.md

# Mapping explosion [mapping-explosion]

In Elasticsearch, a mapping or [mapped field](elasticsearch://reference/elasticsearch/mapping-reference/field-data-types.md) defines the fields in an index and their data types, such as text for full-text search, keyword for exact filtering, or boolean for true/false values. Think of it as a schema that tells Elasticsearch how to interpret and store each piece of data. When the total number of mapped fields across an index grows excessively large, the cluster can experience performance degradation such as slower searches, high heap usage, and prolonged startup times. 

> To protect itself, Elasticsearch enforces a default field limit of `1000` and can reject ingestion for that specific index once the threshold is reached. This condition of runaway field growth is called a mapping explosion, and it typically signals an upstream data formatting issue that should be addressed at the source as [described in this blog](https://www.elastic.co/blog/3-ways-to-prevent-mapping-explosion-in-elasticsearch).

Author: Thanks. If I accept the changes, will those `\` on line 19 and 21 be present and should not be?

# Mapping explosion [mapping-explosion]

> In Elasticsearch, a mapping or [mapped field](elasticsearch://reference/elasticsearch/mapping-reference/field-data-types.md) defines the fields in an index and their data types, such as text for full-text search, keyword for exact filtering, or boolean for true/false values. Think of it as a schema that tells Elasticsearch how to interpret and store each piece of data. When the total number of mapped fields across an index grows excessively large, the cluster can experience performance degradation such as slower searches, high heap usage, and prolonged startup times. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Elasticsearch, a mapping or [mapped field](elasticsearch://reference/elasticsearch/mapping-reference/field-data-types.md) defines the fields in an index and their data types, such as text for full-text search, keyword for exact filtering, or boolean for true/false values. Think of it as a schema that tells Elasticsearch how to interpret and store each piece of data.
```
This is now included in the paragraph after it.

To confirm the field totals of an index to check for mapping explosion:

> * Check {{es}} cluster logs for errors similar to `Limit of total fields [X] in index [Y] has been exceeded` where `X` is the value of  `index.mapping.total_fields.limit` and `Y` is your index. The correlated ingesting source log ({{beats}}, {{agent}}, or {{ls}} logs) error would be `Limit of total fields [X] has been exceeded while adding new fields [Z]` where `Z` is attempted new fields.

Reviewer: 1. IMO calling out Agent where Elastic-mainly controls the pipeline/integration suggests poor form of us pushing a product issue onto them. 
2. We frequently use ingesting `client-side` for `the correlated ingesting source log`.
3. Also worth calling out here/above that this error also contains HTTP `400` and `mapper_parsing_exception` which is what users more commonly google.

> * Reviewing the elected-master node logs will report a flood of INFO logs you see a large amount of `[elasticsearch.server][INFO] update_mapping [_doc]` messages. If they time out you will see a large amount of `org.elasticsearch.cluster.metadata.ProcessClusterEventTimeoutException: failed to process cluster event (put-mapping [<INDEX_NAME>/<INDEX_UUID>]) within 30s`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Review the elected-master node logs for a flood of INFO logs. You might see a large amount of `[elasticsearch.server][INFO] update_mapping [_doc]` messages. If they time out, a large amount of `org.elasticsearch.cluster.metadata.ProcessClusterEventTimeoutException: failed to process cluster event (put-mapping [<INDEX_NAME>/<INDEX_UUID>]) within 30s` messages display as well.
```
